#summary Tooltip plugin
#labels Featured,Phase-Implementation

= Tooltip plugin =

== Introduction ==

*Tooltip* is a [http://www.jquery.com jQuery] plugin to add simple tooltip support to your web development.

Its only 6Kb (in its non-packed version with full comments) and, even it's in a development stage, it's full usable.

== How to use ==

  # Include your jQuery library. You can download it from [http://code.google.com/p/jqueryjs/ here]
  # Include the Tooltip library. You can download it from [http://xphere-jquery-plugins.googlecode.com/files/xph.tooltip.v0.7b.js here]
  # Call this code: {{{$('#id').tooltip({text: 'This is a tooltip!'});}}}

Now whenever you point your mouse at the HTML element identified by 'id', the tooltip must show.

== Default options ==

The `tooltip()` function takes one parameter, _options_, which defines how the tooltip behaviour will be.

When an option is not defined, its value is taken from the $.tooltip.defaults variable.

You can change default behaviour with the `$.tooltip.setup({options})` function.

{{{$.tooltip.setup({text:'Tooltip text by default!'})}}}

== Option list ==

  * === class _(default: 'tooltip')_ ===
  This class is applied to the tooltip container when shown.

  * === css _(default: {})_ ===
  This CSS is applied to the tooltip container when shown.

  * === dst _(default: null)_ ===
  If set to an HTML object, it is used as the tooltip container.

  If null, a new container is created every time the tooltip must be shown, and destroyed when hide.

  * === duration _(default: null)_ ===
  If defined, time to wait between showing and hiding the tooltip.

  If not defined, it lasts until mouseout event raises.

  * === event _(default: 'mouseover')_ ===
  The event that fires the tooltip.

  By default, it's shown on mouse over.

  * === href _(default: null)_ ===
  Text to be shown as an url.

  * === in _(default: null)_ ===
  If defined, the waiting time, in miliseconds, between the event raising and the moment the tooltip must show.

  If null, the tooltip shows inmediately.

  * === offset _(default: {x: 12, y: 18})_ ===
  Offset in pixels from the current mouse position to the top-left corner of the container.

  Only applied when 'track' option is true.

  * === onhide _(default: null)_ ===
  Callback function to be called whenever the tooltip hides.

  * === onshow _(default: null)_ ===
  Callback function to be called whenever the tooltip shows.

  * === out _(default: null)_ ===
  If defined, the waiting time, in miliseconds, between the moment the mouse goes out the element and the moment the tooltip should hide.

  If null, the tooltip hides inmediately.

  * === smart _(default: false)_ ===
  If true, the plugin will try to fill 'title', 'text' and 'href' options, when undefined.

  Usually taken from the element attributes 'title', 'alt' and 'href' respectively.

  * === text _(default: null)_ ===
  Text to be shown inside the tooltip.

  * === title _(default: null)_ ===
  Text to be shown as a title in the first row of the tooltip.

  * === track _(default: true)_ ===
  If true, the tooltip container will follow the mouse when moving.